Mostly final version to code review (#13)
IncQueryLabs/gradle-plugins: viatra-gradle-plugin/documentation/asciidoc/gradle.adoc

.Requirements
The plugin requires Gradle 6.0, but 6.1.1 is recommended.

== Adding the plugin to a project

Firstly, this plugin's repository needs to be added into the list of places Gradle will search for plugins, because by default it only does so in the Gradle Plugin Repository.

This is done by adding the following lines to the **very beginning** of the settings.gradle file.

[source]
----
pluginManagement {
    repositories {
        gradlePluginPortal()
        maven {
            url("https://repo.eclipse.org/content/groups/releases/")
        }
        maven {
        url("https://repo.eclipse.org/content/groups/viatra/")
        }
        maven {
            url 'https://build.incquerylabs.com/nexus/repository/gradle-plugin-releases'
        }
    }
}
----

Then, the plugin can be applied, by id and version, for example:

[source]
----
plugins {
    id "viatra-gradle-plugin" version "0.1.0"
}
----

== Usage

For the plugin to work, it needs the metamodel, in the form of compiled java classes, and the fully qualified names of the Package classes.

For the metamodel, add it to the list of dependencies, just as you would any other compile dependency.

> For the names, the plugin add an extension, named "vlq", with a method called names, which takes one oe more strings.

Author: Clarified usage conditions and fixed the typo.

[source]
----
vql {

> 	names('org.eclipse.viatra.examples.cps.cyberPhysicalSystem.CyberPhysicalSystemPackage',

Author: Function renamed to packageClassNames.

	        'org.eclipse.viatra.examples.cps.deployment.DeploymentPackage')
}
----

In addition, for configuration purposes, the same extension provides other possibilities. The example below shows all possible methods and properties, neither set to their respective default values.

[source]
----
vql {
	names('com.nomagic.uml2.ext.magicdraw.metadata.UMLPackage')

> 	updateManifest.set(true)

Author: Removed those properties.

	generateMatchProcessors.set(false)
	generateExtensions.set(false)

> 	matcherGenerationStrategy.set(org.eclipse.viatra.query.patternlanguage.emf.util.EMFPatternLanguageGeneratorConfig.MatcherGenerationStrategy.SEPARATE_CLASS)

Author: Separated fully qualified reference into import and short reference.
It could use a string and valueOf(). Should it?

> 	matcherGenerationStrategy.set(org.eclipse.viatra.query.patternlanguage.emf.util.EMFPatternLanguageGeneratorConfig.MatcherGenerationStrategy.SEPARATE_CLASS)

Reviewer: Using the import it looks reasonable. Having a 'compile' error instead of a runtime error is a better approach (I know they are similar).

	input.set(project.getLayout().getProjectDirectory().dir('patterns'))
}
----

> `updateManifest`, `generateMatchProcessors`, `generateExtensions`, and `matcherGenerationStrategy` are the same as normally.

Author: Now, if the `useEcliseConfig` property is set to true, the plugin will use the config file.

`input` is the directory of the patterns. Defaults to `src/main/vql`.

> Sadly, the output directory can not be configured. It's always `src-gen`.

Author: Created a 'known issues' heading at the end, and moved this there.

== Cleaning

This plugin adds the src-gen directory to the targets of the clean task.

> == Transitive

Reviewer: What does Transitive mean here? Shouldn't it rather be called Summary?

Author: For example the plugin expects the java plugin to be present, so it applies it itself.
This is hidden from the user, so I wanted to at least write it down somewhere other than the code.
This is kind of like a transitive dependency, that's where the heading came from. I would be happy to use a better title.

Author: Moved the block next to the example.

For the plugin to work, it needs the metamodel, in the form of compiled java classes, and the fully qualified names of the Package classes.

* Add the compiled java classes containing the metamodel to your dependencies, just as you would any other dependency.

> * Give the fully qualified names to the plugin. This is done using the `packageClassNames` function of the newly added `vql` extension. It takes any number of strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A metamodel is registered by the fully qualified class name of the generated EPackage class using the `packageClassNames` function of the newly added `vql` extension. Multiple metamodels can be registered by adding multiple class names as separate strings.
```
